README.md, before:

# Outscale CLI

Official Outscale CLI providing connectors to Outscale API.

[![Code style: black](https://img.shields.io/badge/code%20style-black-000000.svg)](https://github.com/psf/black)

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites

You will need [Python 3.5+](https://www.python.org/) or later. Earlier versions including Python 2 are not supported.

### Installing from package

You can get the package from [pypi](https://pypi.org/project/osc-sdk/):
```
pip3 install osc-sdk
```

If you are using Microsoft Windows, see [how to setup osc-cli on Windows](windows-setup.md).

### Installing from sources

It is a good practice to create a [dedicated virtualenv](https://virtualenv.pypa.io/en/latest/) first. Even if it usually won't harm to install Python libraries directly on the system, better to contain dependencies in a virtual environment.

```bash
python3 -m venv .venv
source .venv/bin/activate
```

Then install osc-cli in your virtual env:
```bash
pip install -e .
```

## Configure osc-cli

Osc-cli configuration is located in `~/.osc/config.json`.

Just copy sample file and customize it
```
mkdir -p ~/.osc
cp config.basic.example.json ~/.osc/config.json
```

See "Authentication" section for more details.

Note: osc-cli still supports old configuration format located in `~/.osc_sdk/config.json` but will use `~/.osc/config.json` in priority.

## Usage

```
osc-cli SERVICE CALL [PROFILE] [CALL-PARAMETERS]
```
or
```
osc-cli --service SERVICE --call CALL [PROFILE] [--CALL_PARAMS ...]
```
with
* SERVICE one of the [services](http://docs.outscale.com) provided by Outscale (`fcu`, `lbu`, `icu`, `eim`, `directlink`, `okms` and `api`)
* CALL the call you request (ie ReadVms, DescribeInstances...)
* PROFILE the profile you want to connect to (optional)
* CALL_PARAMS call arguments which are case-sensitive (optional)


Here is an example of a simple volume creation:
```bash
osc-cli fcu CreateVolume --AvailabilityZone eu-west-2a --Size 10
{
    "CreateVolumeResponse": {
        "@xmlns": "http://ec2.amazonaws.com/doc/2014-06-15/",
        "requestId": "508f428a-9fd8-4a49-9fe6-d0bf311de3b4",
        "volumeId": "vol-6a2aa442",
        "size": "10",
        "snapshotId": null,
        "availabilityZone": "eu-west-2a",
        "status": "creating",
        "createTime": "2019-01-17T12:53:57.836Z",
        "volumeType": "standard"
    }
}
```

Be careful with your quotes ! If you want to pass the string `"12345678"` rather than the integer `12345678` you'll need to quote your quotes:
```bash
$ osc-cli icu CreateAccount --Email "example@email.com" \
			    --FirstName "Osc" \
			    --LastName "Cli" \
			    --Password "12345toto" \
			    --ZipCode '"92000"' \
			    --Country "France" \
			    --CustomerId '"12345678"'
```

Another example with an array of strings into args:
```bash
$ osc-cli api CreateDhcpOptions --DomainName="toot.toot" \
				--DomainNameServers="['1.1.1.1']" \
				--NtpServers="['1.1.1.1']"
```

Example with a complex structure:
```bash
osc-cli icu CreateListenerRule \
--Instances '[{"InstanceId": "i-12345678"}]' \
--ListenerDescription '{"LoadBalancerName": "osc", "LoadBalancerPort": 80}'
--ListenerRuleDescription '{"RuleName": "hello", "Priority": 100, "PathPattern": "/"}'
```

**Argument Parsing**
```bash
$ osc-cli api example --obj=[1,2]    	# list
$ osc-cli api example --obj=10		# int
$ osc-cli api example --obj="10"	# int
$ osc-cli api example --obj="'10'"	# str
$ osc-cli api example --obj=\"10\"	# str

$ osc-cli api example --obj="hello"	# str
$ osc-cli api example --obj=hello	# str
```
**Warning** if you're adding a list which contain strings with specifics characteres, there is a workaround:
```bash
$ osc-cli api example --obj="['vol-12345678', 'vol-87654322']"    	# list
```

## Authentication

osc-cli enable authentication in several ways:
- Using an Access Key and Secret Key (default method)
- Using an login and passphrase
- Using an ephemeral Access Key

### Authenticating using your Access Key and Secret Key

This is the simplest use-case: create your Access Key and Secret Key either through [Cockpit interface](https://cockpit.outscale.com/) or through osc-cli.

Creating your Access Key through osc-cli:
```
osc-cli icu CreateAccessKey --authentication-method=password --interactive
```

Once you have your Access Key, fill `access_key` and `secret_key` in `.osc/config.json`

### Authenticating using your account login and passphrase

Users can authenticate on Outscale API using their account login and passphrase for some specific API calls only.

Examples:
```
osc-cli icu ListAccessKeys --authentication-method=password --interactive
osc-cli icu ListAccessKeys --authentication-method=password --login youremail@company.com --password=Y0URpAssOrd
```

### Authenticating using an ephemeral Access Key

With `--authentication-method=ephemeral`, osc-cli will use a login/passphrase in order to create an ephemeral Access Key.
Once created, it is used for current osc-cli process and stored in `/tmp/osc-cli_${UID}_${PROFILE}.json` for later use.
Future osc-cli processes will use the stored ephemeral Access Key to authenticate.
Once the ephemeral Access Key invalid, a new ephemeral Access Key is created and stored.

With `--ephemeral-ak-duration` option, user can choose ephemeral Access Key lifetime in seconds. Default is 12h.

Example:
```
osc-cli icu ReadVolumes --authentication-method=ephemeral --interactive
```

## Contributing
OSC-CLI is an **open source software** licensed under **BSD-3-Clause.**

Patches and discussions are welcome about bugs you've found or features you think are missing. If you would like to help making **osc-cli** better, take a look to [CONTRIBUTING.md](https://github.com/outscale/osc-cli/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md) file.

Commit message:

Add support for smart cards / soft cards
This should work with pkcs11 and other ssl engines.

You will need to setup those new options in your configuration profile:
- ssl_engine_id (pkcs11, ...)
- ssl_engine_path (path to pkcs11 lib, ...)
- ssl_module_path (path to opensc, softhsm, ...)

And setup:
- x509_client_cert
- x509_client_key

Check `config.smartcard.example.json` example file.

ref #66

Signed-off-by: Jérôme Jutteau <jerome.jutteau@outscale.com>

README.md, after:

# Outscale CLI

Official Outscale CLI providing connectors to Outscale API.

[![Code style: black](https://img.shields.io/badge/code%20style-black-000000.svg)](https://github.com/psf/black)

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites

You will need [Python 3.5+](https://www.python.org/) or later. Earlier versions including Python 2 are not supported.

### Installing from package

You can get the package from [pypi](https://pypi.org/project/osc-sdk/):
```
pip3 install osc-sdk
```

If you are using Microsoft Windows, see [how to setup osc-cli on Windows](windows-setup.md).

### Installing from sources

It is a good practice to create a [dedicated virtualenv](https://virtualenv.pypa.io/en/latest/) first. Even if it usually won't harm to install Python libraries directly on the system, better to contain dependencies in a virtual environment.

```bash
python3 -m venv .venv
source .venv/bin/activate
```

Then install osc-cli in your virtual env:
```bash
pip install -e .
```

## Configure osc-cli

Osc-cli configuration is located in `~/.osc/config.json`.

Just copy sample file and customize it
```
mkdir -p ~/.osc
cp config.basic.example.json ~/.osc/config.json
```

See "Authentication" section for more details.

Note: osc-cli still supports old configuration format located in `~/.osc_sdk/config.json` but will use `~/.osc/config.json` in priority.

## Usage

```
osc-cli SERVICE CALL [PROFILE] [CALL-PARAMETERS]
```
or
```
osc-cli --service SERVICE --call CALL [PROFILE] [--CALL_PARAMS ...]
```
with
* SERVICE one of the [services](http://docs.outscale.com) provided by Outscale (`fcu`, `lbu`, `icu`, `eim`, `directlink`, `okms` and `api`)
* CALL the call you request (ie ReadVms, DescribeInstances...)
* PROFILE the profile you want to connect to (optional)
* CALL_PARAMS call arguments which are case-sensitive (optional)


Here is an example of a simple volume creation:
```bash
osc-cli fcu CreateVolume --AvailabilityZone eu-west-2a --Size 10
{
    "CreateVolumeResponse": {
        "@xmlns": "http://ec2.amazonaws.com/doc/2014-06-15/",
        "requestId": "508f428a-9fd8-4a49-9fe6-d0bf311de3b4",
        "volumeId": "vol-6a2aa442",
        "size": "10",
        "snapshotId": null,
        "availabilityZone": "eu-west-2a",
        "status": "creating",
        "createTime": "2019-01-17T12:53:57.836Z",
        "volumeType": "standard"
    }
}
```

Be careful with your quotes ! If you want to pass the string `"12345678"` rather than the integer `12345678` you'll need to quote your quotes:
```bash
$ osc-cli icu CreateAccount --Email "example@email.com" \
			    --FirstName "Osc" \
			    --LastName "Cli" \
			    --Password "12345toto" \
			    --ZipCode '"92000"' \
			    --Country "France" \
			    --CustomerId '"12345678"'
```

Another example with an array of strings into args:
```bash
$ osc-cli api CreateDhcpOptions --DomainName="toot.toot" \
				--DomainNameServers="['1.1.1.1']" \
				--NtpServers="['1.1.1.1']"
```

Example with a complex structure:
```bash
osc-cli icu CreateListenerRule \
--Instances '[{"InstanceId": "i-12345678"}]' \
--ListenerDescription '{"LoadBalancerName": "osc", "LoadBalancerPort": 80}'
--ListenerRuleDescription '{"RuleName": "hello", "Priority": 100, "PathPattern": "/"}'
```

**Argument Parsing**
```bash
$ osc-cli api example --obj=[1,2]    	# list
$ osc-cli api example --obj=10		# int
$ osc-cli api example --obj="10"	# int
$ osc-cli api example --obj="'10'"	# str
$ osc-cli api example --obj=\"10\"	# str

$ osc-cli api example --obj="hello"	# str
$ osc-cli api example --obj=hello	# str
```
**Warning** if you're adding a list which contain strings with specifics characteres, there is a workaround:
```bash
$ osc-cli api example --obj="['vol-12345678', 'vol-87654322']"    	# list
```

## Authentication

osc-cli enable authentication in several ways:
- Using an Access Key and Secret Key (default method)
- Using an login and passphrase
- Using an ephemeral Access Key

### Authenticating using your Access Key and Secret Key

This is the simplest use-case: create your Access Key and Secret Key either through [Cockpit interface](https://cockpit.outscale.com/) or through osc-cli.

Creating your Access Key through osc-cli:
```
osc-cli icu CreateAccessKey --authentication-method=password --interactive
```

Once you have your Access Key, fill `access_key` and `secret_key` in `.osc/config.json`

### Authenticating using your account login and passphrase

Users can authenticate on Outscale API using their account login and passphrase for some specific API calls only.

Examples:
```
osc-cli icu ListAccessKeys --authentication-method=password --interactive
osc-cli icu ListAccessKeys --authentication-method=password --login youremail@company.com --password=Y0URpAssOrd
```

### Authenticating using an ephemeral Access Key

With `--authentication-method=ephemeral`, osc-cli will use a login/passphrase in order to create an ephemeral Access Key.
Once created, it is used for current osc-cli process and stored in `/tmp/osc-cli_${UID}_${PROFILE}.json` for later use.
Future osc-cli processes will use the stored ephemeral Access Key to authenticate.
Once the ephemeral Access Key invalid, a new ephemeral Access Key is created and stored.

With `--ephemeral-ak-duration` option, user can choose ephemeral Access Key lifetime in seconds. Default is 12h.

Example:
```
osc-cli icu ReadVolumes --authentication-method=ephemeral --interactive
```
## Client certificates

Some users may want to setup their account in order to limit API access from specific IP or specific CA. Check [Api Access Rules](https://wiki.outscale.net/display/EN/About+API+Access+Rules) for more details. If you choose to use a client certificate with osc-cli, you can setup this by either using local cert and key files or by using a smart card.

For client certificates as files, you will have to configure `x509_client_cert` and `x509_client_key` options in your profile. For smart card usage, you will also have to fill `ssl_engine_id` and you optionally specify `ssl_engine_path` and `ssl_module_path` options.

Check [`config.cert.example.json`](config.cert.example.json) and [`config.smartcard.example.json`](config.smartcard.example.json).

Note that client certificate configuration can be combined with any authentication method (see above).

## Contributing
OSC-CLI is an **open source software** licensed under **BSD-3-Clause.**

Patches and discussions are welcome about bugs you've found or features you think are missing. If you would like to help making **osc-cli** better, take a look to [CONTRIBUTING.md](https://github.com/outscale/osc-cli/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md) file.
